WHITE FRAGILITY
Darrell Hillaire: I have no idea what that
means. White... fragility?
Leija Farr: Fragility makes me think about
something being, you know, easily broken.
Greg Rickel: I don't know that as a term I've
heard, but when I read it I thought very much
of just how fragile white folks are when we
have this conversation. We fall apart in the
face of any encounter with the thought that
we may be part of racism, or that we have
some part in playing in how to solve it.
Cynthia Tee: The first thing that comes to
mind is maybe somebody who’s white who feels very
unjustly accused of having any privilege
or, or being racist or anything like that,
purely based on the fact that they don't have
that intention.
Louis Chude-Sokei: That's a real thing in
a place like Seattle, certainly.
Sean Riley: Seattleites can be sort of fragile,
and I really do think we don't like discomfort
and we don't like conflict.
Marci Owens: I think people are afraid to
be wrong about things, and that's why people
are so timid to talk about this.
Michael Dixon: Well, I don't think white people
are fragile. I think they're ignorant.
Lucas Nydam: I never got those skills of being
able to talk about race, and that's where
a lot of people are right now in our country.
They're just starting these conversations,
so they're fragile. They can feel attacked
because they've never really had to think
about it. They'll feel so hurt because they
didn't realize things they were doing were
racist or supporting racist systems.
Jerrell Davis: This need to be hella sensitive
when we're talking about race and ethnicity.
Like, you would think it would be the people
that are being disenfranchised and held back
that would be the most sensitive, you know.
But no, it's the people that are benefiting
from it, that we have to like, water down
and sugarcoat terms,
“don't say white privilege, don't say white supremacy.”
Louis: It is the sense that all conversations
about race or inequity ultimately must be
had in such a way as to not threaten whites
because well-meaning whites often, you know,
see themselves as above the fray.
Rachael DeCruz: I think a lot of conversations
around race and privilege and oppression,
oftentimes people of color will make them
feel better or more digestible for white people.
The point is to expose some stuff that's happening,
whether or not people want to hear it.
Duck Bae: In the nation where you’ve always
been catered to, and you’ve never known
really about it, or stopped to consider it,
suddenly having people talk to you about it,
having people explain to you that you've been
advantaged all your life – could understandably
make someone fragile and unwilling to face
those new realities.
Greg: Very quickly I would go to, “Oh, so,
so I'm to blame for all of this, you know
I was born in 1963. My parents were part of
the civil-rights movement, and you're blaming me?
I'm not a racist. I don't do, I don't tell bad jokes. Some of my best friends are black people.”
You know that's, that's fragility.
That's kind of – we race to that and kind of
want that to suffice, you know, to get
us off the hook.
Leija: Like when you're telling them, like
“This is what I'm going through,” and
they're like, "Well, why are you blaming this
on me?" Like, I'm not blaming, I'm not singling
you out. You know, I'm just telling you what
I'm going through. And I'm trying to have
you listen and, you know, they feel like you're attacking them.
Like, "why are you attacking me?"
Darrell: We're trying to say this system is
messed up. You know, this system creates these
divisions amongst us, you know.
Autumn Bennett: Is it OK to feel uncomfortable?
Yes. Should they feel defensive or like they're
responsible for it all? No. Should they be
taking on the fragility and the guilt, or
whatever, of all of the previous racist white
people on the planet? No.
Marci: It's OK to be human. Like, it's OK to
make mistakes and it's OK to be wrong about things.
But the one thing about being human
is that we learn.
Varisha Khan: Someone who is used to privilege,
to them, equality will feel like injustice.
When someone is so used to having a leg up
over someone else, now when someone else has
caught up to them, now you feel like you have
to share something, and you feel like,
suddenly you feel like you're losing something.
When the reality is you're just sharing the same space.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION